the-values.md, before:

Selenized color coordinates
===========================

LAB values are canonical.  RGB values (both sRGB and Apple RGB) are calculated
from LAB using `utils/convert-lab-palette-to-rgbs.py` script, which employs
`python-colormath` library for color space transformations.


Selenized medium
----------------

![Selenized medium screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/U4y7JTc.png)

```
Color        CIE L*a*b*   sRGB      AppleRGB  HSB
----------   ----------   -------   --------  -----------
bg           25 -10 -16   #154053   #143242   198  74  33
black        35 -12 -19   #245970   #1f475e   199  68  44
br_black     60  -7  -9   #7c95a0   #6b838f   199  22  63
fg           75  -6  -6   #a8bcc3   #99afb7   196  14  77
white        75  -6  -6   #a8bcc3   #99afb7   196  14  77
br_white     85  -6  -6   #c4d8df   #b9cfd8   196  12  88

red          61  63  40   #fc5851   #f33e3f     2  68  99
green        69 -37  53   #78b93e   #6bae27    92  66  73
yellow       74   6  65   #d8b033   #cda11d    46  76  85
blue         61   0 -55   #4e97f5   #4183f5   214  68  96
magenta      65  59 -21   #f16dc5   #e652bb   320  55  95
cyan         73 -40  -4   #41c7b9   #42beaa   174  67  78

br_red       66  63  40   #ff675d   #ff4c4a     3  65 100
br_green     74 -37  53   #85c74c   #79be33    92  62  78
br_yellow    79   6  65   #e7be42   #dfb02a    45  72  90
br_blue      66   0 -55   #5ea4ff   #4f92ff   215  64 100
br_magenta   70  59 -21   #ff7bd3   #f960cc   320  52 100
br_cyan      78 -40  -4   #52d5c7   #50ceba   173  61  84
```



Selenized dark
--------------

![Selenized dark screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/ZozQMRm.png)

```
Color        CIE L*a*b*   sRGB      AppleRGB  HSB
----------   ----------   -------   --------  -----------
bg           15  -8 -13   #072938   #0b1f2b   198  87  22
black        25 -10 -16   #154053   #143242   198  74  33
br_black     50  -7  -9   #637b86   #526873   199  26  53
fg           65  -6  -6   #8ea1a8   #7d9098   196  16  66
white        65  -6  -6   #8ea1a8   #7d9098   196  16  66
br_white     75  -6  -6   #a8bcc3   #99afb7   196  14  77

red          51  63  40   #dc3a3a   #cd222c   360  74  86
green        59 -37  53   #5c9e21   #518f0d    92  79  62
yellow       64   6  65   #ba9610   #aa8400    47  92  73
blue         51   0 -55   #267dd8   #2268d2   211  82  85
magenta      55  59 -21   #d451aa   #c3379c   319  62  83
cyan         63 -40  -4   #12ab9e   #269e8c   175  90  67

br_red       56  63  40   #ec4946   #e03035     1  71  93
br_green     64 -37  53   #6aac30   #5e9e1b    92  72  67
br_yellow    69   6  65   #c9a323   #bb920e    46  82  79
br_blue      56   0 -55   #3c8ae6   #3276e3   213  74  90
br_magenta   60  59 -21   #e25fb8   #d444ab   320  58  89
br_cyan      68 -40  -4   #2eb9ab   #34ad9b   174  75  73
```



Selenized black
---------------

![Selenized black screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/Yk9OfdL.png)

```
Color        CIE L*a*b*   sRGB      AppleRGB  HSB
----------   ----------   -------   --------  -----------
bg           10   0   0   #1b1b1b   #151515    35   0  11
black        20   0   0   #303030   #242424    35   0  19
br_black     55   0   0   #848484   #717171    35   0  52
fg           70   0   0   #ababab   #9b9b9b    35   0  67
white        70   0   0   #ababab   #9b9b9b    35   0  67
br_white     80   0   0   #c6c6c6   #bababa    35   0  78

red          56  63  40   #ec4946   #e03035     1  71  93
green        64 -37  53   #6aac30   #5e9e1b    92  72  67
yellow       69   6  65   #c9a323   #bb920e    46  82  79
blue         56   0 -55   #3c8ae6   #3276e3   213  74  90
magenta      60  59 -21   #e25fb8   #d444ab   320  58  89
cyan         68 -40  -4   #2eb9ab   #34ad9b   174  75  73

br_red       61  63  40   #fc5851   #f33e3f     2  68  99
br_green     69 -37  53   #78b93e   #6bae27    92  66  73
br_yellow    74   6  65   #d8b033   #cda11d    46  76  85
br_blue      61   0 -55   #4e97f5   #4183f5   214  68  96
br_magenta   65  59 -21   #f16dc5   #e652bb   320  55  95
br_cyan      73 -40  -4   #41c7b9   #42beaa   174  67  78
```

Commit message:

Version 0.6: add orange and violet
Selenized now defines 8 accent colors, the same number as Solarized
does. These two colors are not used in terminal configs (because
terminals traditionally use 6 colors), so there is no need to update
them. They will be used in configurations of GUI programs.

the-values.md, after:

Selenized color coordinates
===========================

LAB values are canonical.  RGB values (both sRGB and Apple RGB) are calculated
from LAB using `utils/convert-lab-palette-to-rgbs.py` script, which employs
`python-colormath` library for color space transformations.

Please note that orange and violet are not used in configs of terminal
emulators - they are intended for use with GUI applications (see
[FAQ](README.md#where-are-orange-and-violet)).



Selenized medium
----------------

![Selenized medium screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/U4y7JTc.png)

```
Color        CIE L*a*b*   sRGB      AppleRGB  HSB
----------   ----------   -------   --------  -----------
bg           25 -10 -16   #154053   #143242   198  74  33
black        35 -12 -19   #245970   #1f475e   199  68  44
br_black     60  -7  -9   #7c95a0   #6b838f   199  22  63
fg           75  -6  -6   #a8bcc3   #99afb7   196  14  77
white        75  -6  -6   #a8bcc3   #99afb7   196  14  77
br_white     85  -6  -6   #c4d8df   #b9cfd8   196  12  88

red          61  63  40   #fc5851   #f33e3f     2  68  99
green        69 -37  53   #78b93e   #6bae27    92  66  73
yellow       74   6  65   #d8b033   #cda11d    46  76  85
blue         61   0 -55   #4e97f5   #4183f5   214  68  96
magenta      65  59 -21   #f16dc5   #e652bb   320  55  95
cyan         73 -40  -4   #41c7b9   #42beaa   174  67  78
orange       67  37  50   #ee8649   #e47036    22  69  93
violet       64  33 -48   #b387f2   #9f70f2   264  44  95

br_red       66  63  40   #ff675d   #ff4c4a     3  65 100
br_green     74 -37  53   #85c74c   #79be33    92  62  78
br_yellow    79   6  65   #e7be42   #dfb02a    45  72  90
br_blue      66   0 -55   #5ea4ff   #4f92ff   215  64 100
br_magenta   70  59 -21   #ff7bd3   #f960cc   320  52 100
br_cyan      78 -40  -4   #52d5c7   #50ceba   173  61  84
br_orange    72  37  50   #fd9456   #f77e41    22  66  99
br_violet    69  33 -48   #c195ff   #af7eff   265  42 100
```



Selenized dark
--------------

![Selenized dark screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/ZozQMRm.png)

```
Color        CIE L*a*b*   sRGB      AppleRGB  HSB
----------   ----------   -------   --------  -----------
bg           15  -8 -13   #072938   #0b1f2b   198  87  22
black        25 -10 -16   #154053   #143242   198  74  33
br_black     50  -7  -9   #637b86   #526873   199  26  53
fg           65  -6  -6   #8ea1a8   #7d9098   196  16  66
white        65  -6  -6   #8ea1a8   #7d9098   196  16  66
br_white     75  -6  -6   #a8bcc3   #99afb7   196  14  77

red          51  63  40   #dc3a3a   #cd222c   360  74  86
green        59 -37  53   #5c9e21   #518f0d    92  79  62
yellow       64   6  65   #ba9610   #aa8400    47  92  73
blue         51   0 -55   #267dd8   #2268d2   211  82  85
magenta      55  59 -21   #d451aa   #c3379c   319  62  83
cyan         63 -40  -4   #12ab9e   #269e8c   175  90  67
orange       57  37  50   #cf6c31   #bf5622    23  77  81
violet       54  33 -48   #976ed5   #8156ce   264  49  84

br_red       56  63  40   #ec4946   #e03035     1  71  93
br_green     64 -37  53   #6aac30   #5e9e1b    92  72  67
br_yellow    69   6  65   #c9a323   #bb920e    46  82  79
br_blue      56   0 -55   #3c8ae6   #3276e3   213  74  90
br_magenta   60  59 -21   #e25fb8   #d444ab   320  58  89
br_cyan      68 -40  -4   #2eb9ab   #34ad9b   174  75  73
br_orange    62  37  50   #df793d   #d1632b    22  73  87
br_violet    59  33 -48   #a57ae3   #9063e0   264  46  89
```



Selenized black
---------------

![Selenized black screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/Yk9OfdL.png)

```
Color        CIE L*a*b*   sRGB      AppleRGB  HSB
----------   ----------   -------   --------  -----------
bg           10   0   0   #1b1b1b   #151515    35   0  11
black        20   0   0   #303030   #242424    35   0  19
br_black     55   0   0   #848484   #717171    35   0  52
fg           70   0   0   #ababab   #9b9b9b    35   0  67
white        70   0   0   #ababab   #9b9b9b    35   0  67
br_white     80   0   0   #c6c6c6   #bababa    35   0  78

red          56  63  40   #ec4946   #e03035     1  71  93
green        64 -37  53   #6aac30   #5e9e1b    92  72  67
yellow       69   6  65   #c9a323   #bb920e    46  82  79
blue         56   0 -55   #3c8ae6   #3276e3   213  74  90
magenta      60  59 -21   #e25fb8   #d444ab   320  58  89
cyan         68 -40  -4   #2eb9ab   #34ad9b   174  75  73
orange       62  37  50   #df793d   #d1632b    22  73  87
violet       59  33 -48   #a57ae3   #9063e0   264  46  89

br_red       61  63  40   #fc5851   #f33e3f     2  68  99
br_green     69 -37  53   #78b93e   #6bae27    92  66  73
br_yellow    74   6  65   #d8b033   #cda11d    46  76  85
br_blue      61   0 -55   #4e97f5   #4183f5   214  68  96
br_magenta   65  59 -21   #f16dc5   #e652bb   320  55  95
br_cyan      73 -40  -4   #41c7b9   #42beaa   174  67  78
br_orange    67  37  50   #ee8649   #e47036    22  69  93
br_violet    64  33 -48   #b387f2   #9f70f2   264  44  95
```
