vim/README.md, before:

Installation
------------

1. Copy theme file(s) inside your `$HOME/.vim/colors/` directory
   (`colors/selenized.vim` for dark&light themes, `colors/selenized_bw.vim` for
   black&white themes).
1. Inside vim, use `:colorscheme selenized` to switch colorscheme to selenized.
   You can also make this setting permanent by adding line `colorscheme
   selenized` to your `.vimrc`.
1. Use `set background=dark` and `set background=light` to switch between versions

There are some additional steps if you use vim inside terminal.

### Truecolor-enabled terminals

If your terminal [supports true
color](https://gist.github.com/XVilka/8346728#now-supporting-true-color), add
`set termguicolors` to your `.vimrc`.

### Other terminals

1. Configure your terminal emulator (e.g. [gnome-terminal](../gnome-terminal),
   [iTerm](../iterm) etc.) to use selenized palette
1. You may have to add `set t_Co=16` to your `.vimrc` to instruct Vim to use
   ANSI colors rather then trying 256-color variant of the palette (which is
   only an approximation, see [this
   issue](https://github.com/jan-warchol/selenized/issues/65) for more details)


Syntax coloring choices
-----------------------

Selenized aims to have a similar feel to Solarized, but it doesn't follow all
Solarized coloring choices. In particular, I believe that using green for
keywords doesn't look good, so I've made them yellow (swapping with types,
which are yellow in Solarized). If you don't like this choice, add this to your
`.vimrc`:

    let g:selenized_green_keywords=1

Also note that selenized doesn't use orange and violet because they are not
available in ANSI color palette (Solarized worked around this with an [ugly
hack](https://github.com/jan-warchol/selenized/blob/master/whats-wrong-with-solarized.md#problems-with-implementation)).
However, I plan to use orange and violet in the GUI version of the theme.


Contributing
------------

Selenized theme files are generated using
[vim-colortemplate](https://github.com/lifepillar/vim-colortemplate). You need
to install the plugin (note that it requires Vim 8), edit `.colortemplate`
files and run `:Colortemplate!` to regenerate theme files.

It's quite straighforward to use, and in case anything is not clear the
documentation is really helpful.

Commit message:

Vim: add orange and violet in GUI version
This results in very close compatibility to original solarized.

vim/README.md, after:

Installation
------------

1. Copy theme file(s) inside your `$HOME/.vim/colors/` directory
   (`colors/selenized.vim` for dark&light themes, `colors/selenized_bw.vim` for
   black&white themes).
1. Inside vim, use `:colorscheme selenized` to switch colorscheme to selenized.
   You can also make this setting permanent by adding line `colorscheme
   selenized` to your `.vimrc`.
1. Use `set background=dark` and `set background=light` to switch between versions

There are some additional steps if you use vim inside terminal.

### Truecolor-enabled terminals

If your terminal [supports true
color](https://gist.github.com/XVilka/8346728#now-supporting-true-color), add
`set termguicolors` to your `.vimrc`.

### Other terminals

1. Configure your terminal emulator (e.g. [gnome-terminal](../gnome-terminal),
   [iTerm](../iterm) etc.) to use selenized palette
1. You may have to add `set t_Co=16` to your `.vimrc` to instruct Vim to use
   ANSI colors rather then trying 256-color variant of the palette (which is
   only an approximation, see [this
   issue](https://github.com/jan-warchol/selenized/issues/65) for more details)


Syntax coloring choices
-----------------------

Selenized aims to have a similar feel to Solarized, but it doesn't follow all
Solarized coloring choices. In particular, I believe that using **green for
keywords** doesn't look good, so I've made them yellow (swapping with types,
which are yellow in Solarized). If you don't like this choice, add this to your
`.vimrc`:

    let g:selenized_green_keywords=1

Also note that selenized uses **orange and violet** only in the GUI/truecolor
version of the theme.  That's because they are not available in ANSI color
palette (Solarized worked around this with an [ugly
hack](https://github.com/jan-warchol/selenized/blob/master/whats-wrong-with-solarized.md#problems-with-implementation),
but I prefer to keep compatibility).


Contributing
------------

Selenized theme files are generated using
[vim-colortemplate](https://github.com/lifepillar/vim-colortemplate). You need
to install the plugin (note that it requires Vim 8), edit `.colortemplate`
files and run `:Colortemplate!` to regenerate theme files.

It's quite straighforward to use, and in case anything is not clear the
documentation is really helpful.
